
=begin pod

=NAME
Date::Dump::Tree::DHTML - Renders structure as DHTML

=SYNOPSIS
	
=DESCRIPTION

Data::Dump::Tree::DHTML is a Role you can add to a Data::Dump::Tree object.

The role add a B<dump_dhtml> method to the object. 

=INTERFACE

=item $dumper.dump_dhtml($s1, *%options) 
Dump a HTML document with folding capacity.

=item $dumper.get_dhtml_dump($s1, *%options) 
Returns a HTML document with folding capacity on $*OUT.

=USAGE

	my $d = Data::Dump::Tree.new(title => 'test',  does => ( DDTR::DHTML,),) ;
	
	class Tomato{ has Int $seeds }
	$d.dump_dhtml([ 1, { key => { sk1 => 'v1', sk2 => 'v2'},}, Tomato,]) ;

=head2 Multiple data structures output

You can call I<dump_dhtml> multiple times for different data structures. Each
dump will have a separate body, class, style, and identifiers.
 
=head2 Configuration and Overrides
Check B<Data::Dump::Tree> for the options that you can pass the dumper. Not all
the standard configurations can be used.

Generally:

- all data manipulation done in filters work as the DHTML is generated after the
filters are called

- data added to @renderings in the filters is not displayed in the dhtml 

- all coloring and format options are ignored

=head3 Width
The default width is set to 1_000 characters, you can override it with I<:width>.

=AUTHOR

Nadim ibn hamouda el Khemir
https://github.com/nkh

=LICENSE

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify it
under the same terms as Perl6 itself.

=SEE-ALSO

Data::Dump::Tree

=end pod

DOC INIT {use Pod::To::Text ; pod2text($=pod) ; }

